now despite a small number of people
being allowed into Egypts via the Rafa
Crossing many more are frustrated and
frightened by not being able to leave
Gaza we spoke to some of
them my two little children are
jordanians I'm not I've applied for
citizenship their names are on the list
mine's not they're asking me to separate
from my little children 2 years old and
3 years old how am I going to leave
them it's been horri in horrible my
little brother has a condition he ran
out of medicine and he's suffering
repeated seizures and has many
complications I would like to know who
has the right to go home we are
Egyptians we are only one hour away from
our home I'm with my two little
daughters I've been here since the day
the crossing was hid by Israeli war
planes I'm here to see off my wife we're
recently married she's Jordanian I'm
pales inian I need to see her get across
to safety my only crime is that I am
Palestinian well US President Joe Biden
says he expects American Nationals to
leave Gaza today and in the coming days
let's bring in our White House
correspondent kimbery haret from on this
from Washington DC Kimberly so what more
is the White House doing to try and get
these US citizens out of
Gaza yeah we were hearing that they
would be among some of the last today to
be departing but in the last hour or so
we're hearing that at least five Aid
workers with American nationality have
now departed through the Rafa Crossing
they are Aid workers that work for
Charities such as Doctors Without
Borders among others now we're learning
more about how this Arrangement was
worked out uh John Kirby the National
Security spokesperson speaking aboard
Air Force One talking to reporters
revealing that this was discussed in
detail on a Sunday phone call that
occurred between the US president and
the Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin net
Yahoo some days ago we're also hearing
from the state department that no
concessions were made in terms of any
sort of deal to Hamas so we're getting a
better understanding of how this was
worked out but at the same time still a
lot of people left behind and so uh the
United States hoping that there will be
more in the coming days and the US
president taking credit for this on
Twitter he's writing today thanks to
American leadership we secured safe
passage for wounded Palestinians and
foreign Nationals to exit Gaza hoping
more in the coming days but we should
point out even as the United States has
taken credit for this uh we should also
remind our viewers that Qatar has been
instrumental in these negotiations
bringing together the parties given the
fact that Israel the United States don't
deal directly with Hamas Kimberly
President Biden has since the beginning
of this latest escalation expressed
unwavering support for Israel but I
wonder how much pressure he facing right
now in this White House is facing given
the condemnation that's growing of
Israel's attacks on civilians in Gaza
we've seen hundreds of kill of people
killed in the last two days how much
pressure is President Biden in to reign
in
Israel he's under an enormous amount of
pressure and it's not just coming from
outside the White House it's starting to
come from inside the Biden
Administration as well we've already
seen the public protest the open letters
the walkouts that have been happening on
Global stage but now we're starting to
learn more and more about the dissent
within the Biden Administration it's
starting to leak out and is being
reported here in the United States that
members of the state department are
voicing their concerns they are actively
being ignored they say they are reaching
out we've had one high-profile
resignation at the state department
people that dispute and take issue with
the president's policy say they can no
longer support this they no longer
believe that having a right to defend
itself means the murder of women and
children and so there is open dissent
but what we are hearing is that the US
president is not listening instead what
he's doing we understand is surrounding
himself with a very small tight-knit
circle of advisors and essentially is
ignoring the experts in other words the
people at the state department at the
Pentagon who have expertise but he is
not utilizing that and so uh there is a
growing pressure on this president but
the president is as we often say in
Washington listening with closed ears
Kimberly thank you very much for that
Kimberly hawkett is our White House
Correspondents live there in
Washington